docs(srv): add SEM x Jobs documentation MTA-5199 (#3898)
scaleway/docs-content: serverless/jobs/how-to/reference-secret-in-job.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to reference secrets in Serverless Jobs
  description: Steps to reference secrets from Secret Manager in your Serverless Jobs.
content:
  h1:  How to reference secrets in Serverless Jobs
  paragraph: Steps to reference secrets from Secret Manager in your Serverless Jobs.
tags: serverless jobs secrets secret-manager reference environment variable
dates:
  validation: 2024-10-27
  posted: 2024-10-27
categories:
  - serverless
  - jobs
---

Serverless Jobs seamlessly integrates with [Secret Manager](/identity-and-access-management/secret-manager/), which allows you to store, manage, and access sensitive information, such as credentials, SSH keys, SSL/TLS certificates, or any key/value pairs you need to secure.

> You can reference any secret stored in Secret Manager in a job, without having to hardcode any sensible data.

Reviewer: I think you can add somewhere in the doc that "each access to a Secret by a Job Run generates a call to the Secret Manager API, refer to [Secret Manager pricing](https://www.scaleway.com/en/pricing/security-and-account/) for more information"

> You can reference any secret stored in Secret Manager in a job, without having to hardcode any sensible data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can reference any secret stored in Secret Manager in a job, without having to hardcode any sensitive data.
```

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- [Created a Serverless Job](/serverless/jobs/how-to/create-job-from-scaleway-registry/)
- [Created a secret](/identity-and-access-management/secret-manager/how-to/create-secret/)

> ## Add a secret to a job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reference a secret to a job
```

Reviewer 2: or "in a job", if the verb is being changed to Reference

1. Click **Jobs** in the **Serverless** section of the side menu. The jobs page displays.

2. Click the name of the job to which you want to add a secret, then open the **Settings** tab.

3. In the **Secrets references** section, click **+ Add secret reference**. A pop-up displays.

4. Select the secret you want to reference, and the desired version, then click **Select reference method**.

5. Select the desired reference method:

  - **File**: copies the encrypted value of your secret to a file stored at the indicated location within your container. This method is recommended for large or complex data. For example, if your secret is a certificate, you can store it as a file in the `/my-certificates` folder in your container.

>   - **Environment variable**: passes the encrypted value of your secret to your job as a variable. This method is recommended for small information, such as passwords, or API secret keys. For example, if you name this variable `MY_SECRET`, calling `$MY_SECRET` in your container will return the value of the selected secret in a secure way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Environment variable**: passes the encrypted value of your secret to your job as a variable. This method is recommended for small pieces of information, such as passwords, or API secret keys. For example, if you name this variable `MY_SECRET`, calling `$MY_SECRET` in your container will return the value of the selected secret in a secure way.
```

6. Click **Add reference** to add the secret to your Serverless Job. Optionally, tick the **Add another reference** to add a new secret right away, then repeat steps 4 to 6.

The secret is now referenced in your Serverless Job, and can be used within the container.

> ## Update a secret in a job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Update a secret reference from a job
```

1. Click **Jobs** in the **Serverless** section of the side menu. The jobs page displays.

2. Click the name of the job for which you want to update a secret, then open the **Settings** tab.

3. In the **Secret references** section, click the <Icon name="edit" /> icon next to the secret reference you want to update. A pop-up displays.

4. Update the secret version if needed, then click **Update** to save your changes, or click **Select reference method** to continue.

> 5. Either update the location of the file, or the name of the environment, variable then click **Update reference** to confirm your changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Either update the location of the file, or the name of the environment variable, then click **Update reference** to confirm your changes.
```

> 5. Either update the location of the file, or the name of the environment, variable then click **Update reference** to confirm your changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Either update the location of the file, or the name of the environment variable, then click **Update reference** to confirm your changes.
```

<Message type="note">

> You cannot change the reference method of an existing secret. To do so, delete the secret reference within the job, then create it again with the desired reference method.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You cannot change the reference method of an existing secret. You have to delete the secret reference within the job first, then create it again with the desired reference method.
```

---
meta:
  title: How to reference secrets in Serverless Jobs
  description: Steps to reference secrets from Secret Manager in your Serverless Jobs.
content:
  h1:  How to reference secrets in Serverless Jobs
  paragraph: Steps to reference secrets from Secret Manager in your Serverless Jobs.

> tags: serverless jobs secrets secret-manager reference environment variable

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
tags: serverless jobs secrets secret-manager environment-variable
```

<Macro id="requirements" />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- [Created a Serverless Job](/serverless/jobs/how-to/create-job-from-scaleway-registry/)
- [Created a secret](/identity-and-access-management/secret-manager/how-to/create-secret/)

## Reference a secret in a job

1. Click **Jobs** in the **Serverless** section of the side menu. The jobs page displays.

2. Click the name of the job to which you want to add a secret, then open the **Settings** tab.

3. In the **Secrets references** section, click **+ Add secret reference**. A pop-up displays.

4. Select the secret you want to reference, and the desired version, then click **Select reference method**.

5. Select the desired reference method:

>   - **File**: copies the encrypted value of your secret to a file stored at the indicated location within your container. This method is recommended for large or complex data. For example, if your secret is a certificate, you can store it as a file in the `/my-certificates` folder in your container.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - **File**: copies the encrypted value of your secret to a file stored at the indicated location within your job. This method is recommended for large or complex data. For example, if your secret is a certificate, you can store it as a file in the `/my-certificates` folder in your job
```

I think, from a product perspective, the client doesn’t need to be aware of the underlying technologies we use.

>   - **Environment variable**: passes the encrypted value of your secret to your job as a variable. This method is recommended for small pieces of information, such as passwords, or API secret keys. For example, if you name this variable `MY_SECRET`, calling `$MY_SECRET` in your container will return the value of the selected secret in a secure way.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - **Environment variable**: passes the encrypted value of your secret to your job as a variable. This method is recommended for small pieces of information, such as passwords, or API secret keys. For example, if you name this variable `MY_SECRET`, calling `$MY_SECRET` in your job will return the value of the selected secret in a secure way.
```

6. Click **Add reference** to add the secret to your Serverless Job. Optionally, tick the **Add another reference** to add a new secret right away, then repeat steps 4 to 6.

> The secret is now referenced in your Serverless Job, and can be used within the container.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The secret is now referenced in your Serverless Job, and can be used within the job.
```

## Update a secret reference from a job

1. Click **Jobs** in the **Serverless** section of the side menu. The jobs page displays.

2. Click the name of the job for which you want to update a secret, then open the **Settings** tab.

3. In the **Secret references** section, click the <Icon name="edit" /> icon next to the secret reference you want to update. A pop-up displays.

4. Update the secret version if needed, then click **Update** to save your changes, or click **Select reference method** to continue.

5. Either update the location of the file, or the name of the environment variable, then click **Update reference** to confirm your changes.

<Message type="note">

> You cannot change the reference method of an existing secret. You have to delete the secret reference within the job first, then create it again with the desired reference method.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You cannot change the reference method of an existing secret. To modify it, first delete the current secret reference within the job, then create a new one with the desired reference method.
```
